kind: article
title: Shopping at the Supermarket
zh: 逛超市：食物、数字和钱
summary: 跟着麦克斯和妈妈逛一次超市：水果蔬菜、肉和奶、价格、找零。把购物时最常用的词和问句都放进去。
grammar: 可数名词与不可数名词 | 可数：an apple, two apples；不可数：milk, bread, rice，不能直接加 -s | We need some milk and two bags of apples.
grammar: How much / How many | How much 问价钱或不可数名词的量；How many 问可数名词的数量 | How much is this cheese?
grammar: a / an | 辅音音素开头用 a，元音音素开头用 an | I want an orange and a banana
grammar: 量词短语 | a bottle of, a box of, a bag of, a loaf of, a carton of 用来数不可数名词 | a loaf of bread
grammar: would like | 礼貌地说"想要"：I'd like … / Would you like …? | Would you like a free sample?
vocab: supermarket 超市; list 清单; cart 购物车; fruit 水果; vegetable 蔬菜; apple 苹果; banana 香蕉; orange 橙子; tomato 番茄; potato 土豆; onion 洋葱; meat 肉; chicken 鸡肉; fish 鱼; milk 牛奶; cheese 奶酪; egg 鸡蛋; bread 面包; rice 米饭; price 价格; dollar 美元; cent 美分; cheap 便宜的; expensive 贵的; cashier 收银员; change 找零; bag 袋子; aisle 货架通道; frozen 冷冻的; sale 打折
---
Hi! I am Max. I am ten years old. Every Saturday morning, I go shopping with my mom. We go to the big supermarket near our house. It is called Fresh Mart. I like going to the supermarket, because I can help my mom, and sometimes she buys me a treat. Today I want to take you shopping with us. Let's go!

Making a list

Before we go, we always make a shopping list. My mom says, "No list, no shopping." A list helps us remember everything. It also helps us save money, because we do not buy things we do not need.

We sit at the kitchen table. Mom opens the fridge. She looks inside and says, "We need some milk and two bags of apples." I write it down. Then she opens the cupboard. "We need rice, pasta, and a box of cereal." I write it down. Then she looks at the bread box. It is empty. "And a loaf of bread," she says. I write that down too.

Here is our list for today:

Milk, apples, bananas, tomatoes, potatoes, onions, chicken, fish, eggs, cheese, bread, rice, pasta, cereal, orange juice, and toothpaste.

It is a long list. I put the list in my pocket, and we get in the car.

Getting a cart

At the supermarket, the first thing we do is get a cart. The carts are outside, next to the door. Some carts are big, and some carts are small. We always take a big one. One wheel on our cart is often a little broken. It goes "squeak, squeak, squeak" all the way around the store. My mom laughs and says, "We have a singing cart today."

When we walk in, the doors open by themselves. The supermarket is very big and very bright. There is music in the air. There are many people. Some people are fast, and some people are slow. Some people are talking on their phones. A little baby is crying in one cart. A man is looking at his list with a confused face.

The fruit and vegetables

The first part of the store is the fruit and vegetables. Everything is fresh and colorful. There are red apples, green apples, and yellow apples. There are bananas, oranges, grapes, pears, peaches, and big round watermelons. On the other side, there are vegetables. There are tomatoes, potatoes, onions, carrots, lettuce, cucumbers, and broccoli.

"Max, please get two bags of apples," says Mom. I take a plastic bag and put six apples in it. Then I take another bag and put six more apples in it. I check them carefully. A good apple is hard and shiny. A bad apple is soft and has brown spots.

"I want an orange and a banana," I say. "For my lunch box."

"Okay," says Mom. "Get a bunch of bananas. Not one banana, a bunch."

A bunch of bananas has five or six bananas together. I find a nice bunch. They are yellow with a little green at the top. "Green is good," says Mom. "They will be ready in two days."

Then we get tomatoes, potatoes, and onions. The potatoes are in a big brown bag. The bag is very heavy. "How many potatoes are in this bag?" I ask.

Mom looks at the label. "It says five pounds. Maybe fifteen or twenty potatoes."

"That is a lot of potatoes," I say.

"Your dad loves potatoes," she says. "He eats them every day."

Reading prices

Every food in the supermarket has a price. The price is on a small sign under the food. Mom says I must always look at the price. Some things are cheap, and some things are expensive.

"Max, how much are the tomatoes?" Mom asks.

I look at the sign. "Two dollars and fifty cents for one pound," I read.

"And how much are those tomatoes?" She points to a different box. The tomatoes in that box are smaller.

"One dollar and ninety-nine cents for one pound," I say.

"Good. Which is cheaper?"

"The small ones are cheaper," I say. "They are fifty-one cents cheaper."

"Great math!" says Mom. "We will get the small ones. They taste the same."

In America, money is in dollars and cents. One dollar is one hundred cents. We write two dollars and fifty cents like this: $2.50. A penny is one cent. A nickel is five cents. A dime is ten cents. A quarter is twenty-five cents. I like quarters the best, because they are big and shiny.

Meat and fish

Next, we go to the meat and fish part of the store. It is at the back. It is cold there. There is a big glass case with chicken, beef, pork, and fish. A man in a white hat works behind the case. He is the butcher.

"Good morning!" he says. "What would you like today?"

"I'd like two pounds of chicken, please," says Mom. "And one pound of salmon."

The butcher puts the chicken on a scale. The scale shows the weight. "Two point one pounds," he says. "Is that okay?"

"That is fine, thank you," says Mom.

He wraps the chicken in white paper. Then he gets the salmon. Salmon is a pink fish. It is good for your brain, my mom says. I am not sure about that, but I like it with rice and a little lemon.

The dairy aisle

A supermarket has many aisles. An aisle is a long way between two big shelves. Each aisle has a number and a sign. Aisle one is bread. Aisle two is cereal. Aisle three is rice and pasta. Aisle seven is dairy. Dairy means milk, cheese, butter, yogurt, and eggs.

We go to aisle seven. It is very cold, because all the food is in big fridges with glass doors. I open a door and take a gallon of milk. A gallon is very big. It is about four liters. Then I take a carton of eggs. A carton of eggs has twelve eggs. I open it and check every egg. "None of them are broken," I say. Mom smiles.

Then we look at the cheese. There are many kinds of cheese. There is yellow cheese, white cheese, cheese with holes, and very smelly cheese. A woman is standing next to a small table. She is giving people little pieces of cheese on toothpicks.

"Would you like a free sample?" she asks me.

"Yes, please!" I say. I take a piece. It is soft and a little salty. It is delicious.

"How much is this cheese?" Mom asks.

"It is five dollars and ninety-nine cents," says the woman. "But today it is on sale. It is only four dollars."

"Great," says Mom. "We will take one."

Sales are good. On sale means cheaper than the normal price. My mom loves sales. Every week, she looks at the supermarket's sale paper on her phone. She says, "Buy what is on sale, and cook what you buy."

Bread, rice, and cereal

Next, we go to aisle one for bread. There is white bread, brown bread, bread with seeds, and long French bread. Mom wants a loaf of brown bread. A loaf is one whole piece of bread before you cut it. I choose the loaf and put it on top of the other things, so it does not get squashed.

Then we go to aisle three. We get a bag of rice and two boxes of pasta. Then aisle two. Aisle two is my favorite aisle, because it has the cereal. There are hundreds of boxes. Some boxes have cartoon animals on them. Some boxes have toys inside.

"Can I choose the cereal?" I ask.

"You can choose," says Mom. "But it can't be the one with marshmallows."

I look for a long time. Finally, I choose a box of corn flakes with honey. It is not my favorite, but it is good. Mom says, "Good choice."

The frozen food

We need orange juice, so we go to the frozen food aisle. Frozen food is in very cold freezers. There is ice cream, frozen pizza, frozen vegetables, and frozen fish. My eyes go straight to the ice cream. There is chocolate, vanilla, strawberry, and mint chocolate chip.

"Mom," I say, "we do not need ice cream. But I think we want ice cream."

Mom laughs. "That is very honest. Okay. One small box. Because you helped me so much today."

I choose mint chocolate chip. It is the best flavor in the world.

The checkout

Now our cart is full. It is time to pay. We go to the front of the store. This part is called the checkout. There are many lines. Each line has a cashier. The cashier takes your food and tells you the price. Some lines are long, and some lines are short. We find a short line.

Our cashier is a young man with a friendly face. His name tag says "Tony." "Hi, how are you today?" he asks.

"Good, thanks," says Mom. "And you?"

"Great, thanks," says Tony.

I help Mom put all the food on the black belt. The belt moves, and Tony takes each thing. He scans it with a small red light. Beep. Beep. Beep. The price goes on a little screen.

"Do you have a store card?" he asks.

"Yes," says Mom. She gives him her card. With a store card, some things are cheaper.

When everything is scanned, Tony says, "Your total is sixty-three dollars and forty cents."

Mom gives him four twenty-dollar bills. That is eighty dollars. Tony gives her the change. "Sixteen dollars and sixty cents is your change," he says. "Have a great day!"

"Thank you. You too!" we say.

Then I help put the food in our bags. We bring our own bags from home. They are made of cloth, and we use them again and again. My mom says plastic bags are bad for the ocean. I put the heavy things, like milk and potatoes, at the bottom. I put the light things, like bread and eggs, on top.

Going home

We push our singing cart to the car. Squeak, squeak, squeak. We put the bags in the trunk. Then I return the cart to the cart area. My mom says, "Always return your cart. It is good manners."

At home, I help Mom put everything away. Milk, cheese, eggs, and chicken go in the fridge. The ice cream goes in the freezer. The apples and bananas go in a bowl on the table. The rice, pasta, and cereal go in the cupboard.

Then I take out my list from my pocket. I check every word. Milk, yes. Apples, yes. Bananas, yes. Tomatoes, yes. Toothpaste... Oh no! We forgot the toothpaste!

Mom looks at me. I look at Mom. Then we both laugh.

"Next Saturday," says Mom. "Write it at the top of the list."

Useful supermarket English

Here are some useful questions and sentences from today. You can use them in any supermarket:

Excuse me, where is the milk? It is in aisle seven.
How much is this? It is three dollars.
How many eggs are in a carton? There are twelve.
Is this on sale? Yes, it is two for five dollars.
I'd like one pound of chicken, please.
Can I pay with a card? Yes, of course.
Do you need a bag? No, thank you. I have my own bag.
Where are the shopping carts? They are outside, next to the door.
How many apples do you want? I want six, please.

Try this at home: write your own shopping list in English. Look in your fridge and in your cupboard. What do you need? Write the names of the food, and next to each one, write how much or how many. For example: two bottles of water, one bag of rice, a dozen eggs, some cheese. Then go to the store and read the prices. Which things are cheap? Which things are expensive? You will learn many new words, and maybe you will save some money too.
